Virtual memory:- virtual memory is an storage allocation schema in which secondry memory can be addressed as though it was the part
                 of main memory.
                 it is a technique that is implemented using both hardware and software it maps memory address used by a program ,
                 called virtual addresses to physical memory address.
                 
         logical Addresses:- all memory references with in a process are logical addresses that are dynamicly translated into 
                             physical addresses at run time.that means that a process can be swaped in or swaped out of main memory
                             such that it occupies different place in main memory at different times during course of execution.
                             
                             
   Demand Paging:-the process of loading page in main memory from secondry memory is known as demand paging.
              explaination-if cpu try to refer a page in main memory that is currently not availabe in the main memory,it generates 
                                an intrupt indicating memory access fault.
                            the os puts intrupt process in blocking state,for the execution to process the OS must bring the required
                                page into main memory.
                            the os search for the page in logical address space.
                            the required page will be baught from logical address to physical address
                            the page table will update accordingly.
                            the signal will be sent to OS to continue program execution and will place the process back into ready state.
                           
                           
   Thrashing:- if OS spent more time only in page replacement rather than executing instruction, its called thrashing(because
               countious replacement of the page the cpu cycle get wasted and throughput of the cpu decreases)
              
              cause of Thrashing:- 
                1)High degree of Multiprogramming:-As a process get loaded to execute some important frame also get loaded(swaped in)
                      into memory and they will swapped out but not immidiately(after some time) so if process keeps on increasing into
                      memory than number of frames allocated to each process will be decreased so less number of frames will be availabe 
                      to each process,due to this page fault will occur more frequently and more cpu time will be wasted in swapping-in 
                       and swapping-out
                       
                       
     paging:-paging is a technique to store and retrieve data from secondry memory,
             this is the scheme which allow to to store data in non contiguous manner.
         
     Page Fault:–A page fault is a type of interrupt, raised by the hardware when a running program accesses a memory page that is 
                 mapped into the virtual address space, but not loaded in physical memory.
                 
      
     frgmentation:-
     
     
     segmentation:-
                 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
frame:-the physical address space is conceptually devided into a number of fixed sized block that fixed size block in physical 
       memory space in called frame   or   we can say frame are analogous to logical address sapce
page:-the logical address space is also splitted into fixed sized block whick is called page.
      page size = frame size
      logical address =31 bit than logical address space =2^31 word

logical Address or virtual address:-the address generated by CPU(represented in bits).
logical address space or virtual address space:-set of all logicall addres generated by program(represented by byte or words)
physical address:- Actual address available in memory
physical address space:- the physical address space correspondings to logical address space

page offset:-number of bits required to represent paticular word in page.


